README.md, before:

# hman-stomper
Stomp Box based on ESP32

Current status is "under development"

# Background / Story
Since the last years some companies provided some professional Stompboxes for guitarrists and cajon-players to play the bassdrum or other percussion-sounds by feet.
After some research I come to the final to build a stomper like this based on a sample player.
I did it because I had a lot of concerns if a ready stomper from Ortega or Roland could match to the needs which I had.

First I did not have so many technical needs, the only requirement was: The sounds should match to the music and it should be simple as possible to select the sounds on stage.
Ok, thats not a well defined requirement but many requirements could be derived from it.
.. many sounds, unlimited sound-manipulation when editing the sounds, but simple gui for the stage.

It depends mostly on the sounds which are already defined in these existing tools. 
In most cases the sounds are fixed and You have to pay a money for many sounds you never use in your music.

I did some first tests with an ESP8266 and used around 20 WAV-Files.
After the first jamsession I dropped around 6 sounds, added 2 new sounds and change the order of the sounds.

To fulfill the requirement of flexible editing and simple GUI, I came up with the idea to use a Web-UI for the editing and for the use on stage only a display and a button would be enough.
I am still researching this way.

To make it more simple to change the WAV-Files I will use only a few sounds in the ROM and use a SD-Card to add more sounds.

The sound should be triggered by a simple Piezo-Element.

The microprocessor which I use for testing is an ESP32 PICO D4. The DACs which I am testing are PCM1502a and DAC98357A.
Not yet tested is an alternative using Delta-Sigma-Converter which works simply with one transistor.

Connections:
ESP32 - DAC98357A or PCM5102
 GPIO 26  - BCK-Pin  
 GPIO 25  - LRCK-Pin 
 GPIO 33  - DIN-Pin 
 
special for PCM5102 
VCC - not connected!
3.3V -> 3.3 Volt (analog side)
GND -> ( Analog or Digital GND??)
FLT (Filter)  -> GND
DMP (DEMP?) -> GND (eigentlich analog Ground)
SCL -> GND
BCK -> GPIO 26
DIN  -> GPIO 33
LCK -> GPIO 25
FMT(Filter) -> GND
XMT -> 3.3V (0V = Mute, 3.3V = unmute)

The MicroSD-Card-Reader is an active one which transforms the voltage locally from 5volts to 3.3volts.
ESP32    SD-Card - Adapter (active Adapter for Microsd-Cards)
 GPIO 23 = MOSI
 GPIO 19 = MISO
 GPIO 18 = CLK / SCLK
 GPIO 05 = CS
 GND = GND


A passive adaptor does not work without additional resistors. If You would like to only use a simple Micro-SD to SD-Card-Adaptor, then pullup all pins (MOSI, MISO, CLK) to 3.3 via 10KOhm resistors.
I will test this setup later to make the entrypoint for this project as chaep as possible. 

Additional Pins are used for a "Next-Sound-Select-Button", an optional OLED-display attached via I2C and 2 rotary encoders but this Pinout is not yet fixed.

The minimum hardware-setup then: 1 ESP32-Devboard, 1 Piezo, 1 transistor, 2 resistors, 1 diode, 1 button, 1 capacitor,one socket for 6.3mm jacks
The maximum hardware-setup then: 1 ESP32-Devboard, 1 Piezo, DAC pcm5102, 1x SDCard-Adaptor,1x SD-Card, 2 Rotary encoders, OLED-Display, 1 button, 2 sockets 6.3mm

Ii used a USB-Powerbank as the Powersupply which works well.

Any comments:
stomp@hman-project.de

Erich Heinemann

Commit message:

new Readme for Audio8266-additional files...
Readme which describes the additional files

README.md, after:

# hman-stomper
Stomp Box based on ESP32

Current status is "under development"

# Background / Story
Since the last years some companies provided some professional Stompboxes for guitarrists and cajon-players to play the bassdrum or other percussion-sounds by feet.
After some research I come to the final to build a stomper like this based on a sample player.
I did it because I had a lot of concerns if a ready stomper from Ortega or Roland could match to the needs which I had.

If You do not have any idea which type of box I am writing about:
https://www.google.de/search?client=firefox-b-ab&dcr=0&biw=1440&bih=805&tbm=isch&sa=1&ei=w9ltWsfpJsH3kwXo35KYCg&q=stompbox+wood&oq=stompbox+wood&gs_l=psy-ab.3...102477.103193.0.103405.5.5.0.0.0.0.81.359.5.5.0....0...1c.1.64.psy-ab..0.2.153...0j0i30k1j0i19k1j0i30i19k1.0.5D-yvMPc-pk

First I did not have so many technical needs, the only requirement was: The sounds should match to the music and it should be simple as possible to select the sounds on stage.
Ok, thats not a well defined requirement but many requirements could be derived from it.
.. many sounds, unlimited sound-manipulation when editing the sounds, but simple gui for the stage.

It depends mostly on the sounds which are already defined in these existing tools. 
In most cases the sounds are fixed and You have to pay a money for many sounds you never use in your music.

I did some first tests with an ESP8266 and used around 20 WAV-Files.
After the first jamsession I dropped around 6 sounds, added 2 new sounds and change the order of the sounds.

To fulfill the requirement of flexible editing and simple GUI, I came up with the idea to use a Web-UI for the editing and for the use on stage only a display and a button would be enough.
I am still researching this way.

To make it more simple to change the WAV-Files I will use only a few sounds in the ROM and use a SD-Card to add more sounds.

The sound should be triggered by a simple Piezo-Element.

The microprocessor which I use for testing is an ESP32 PICO D4. The DACs which I am testing are PCM1502a and DAC98357A.
Not yet tested is an alternative using Delta-Sigma-Converter which works simply with one transistor.

Connections:
ESP32 - DAC98357A or PCM5102
 GPIO 26  - BCK-Pin  
 GPIO 25  - LRCK-Pin 
 GPIO 33  - DIN-Pin 
 
special for PCM5102 
VCC - not connected!
3.3V -> 3.3 Volt (analog side)
GND -> ( Analog or Digital GND??)
FLT (Filter)  -> GND
DMP (DEMP?) -> GND (eigentlich analog Ground)
SCL -> GND
BCK -> GPIO 26
DIN  -> GPIO 33
LCK -> GPIO 25
FMT(Filter) -> GND
XMT -> 3.3V (0V = Mute, 3.3V = unmute)

The MicroSD-Card-Reader is an active one which transforms the voltage locally from 5volts to 3.3volts.
ESP32    SD-Card - Adapter (active Adapter for Microsd-Cards)
 GPIO 23 = MOSI
 GPIO 19 = MISO
 GPIO 18 = CLK / SCLK
 GPIO 05 = CS
 GND = GND


A passive adaptor does not work without additional resistors. If You would like to only use a simple Micro-SD to SD-Card-Adaptor, then pullup all pins (MOSI, MISO, CLK) to 3.3 via 10KOhm resistors.
I will test this setup later to make the entrypoint for this project as chaep as possible. 

Additional Pins are used for a "Next-Sound-Select-Button", an optional OLED-display attached via I2C and 2 rotary encoders but this Pinout is not yet fixed.

The minimum hardware-setup then: 1 ESP32-Devboard, 1 Piezo, 1 transistor, 2 resistors, 1 diode, 1 button, 1 capacitor,one socket for 6.3mm jacks
The maximum hardware-setup then: 1 ESP32-Devboard, 1 Piezo, DAC pcm5102, 1x SDCard-Adaptor,1x SD-Card, 2 Rotary encoders, OLED-Display, 1 button, 2 sockets 6.3mm

Ii used a USB-Powerbank as the Powersupply which works well.

Any comments:
stomp@hman-project.de

Erich Heinemann
